Epa howto (#658)
canonical/k8s-snap: docs/src/snap/howto/epa.md

      6plDs+aeff/MAmHbak7yF+Txj8+8F4k6FcfNBT51oVSZuqFwyLswjGVzWol6aEY7
      akVIrn3OdN2u6VWlU4ZO5+sjP4QYsf5K2oVnzFVIpYvqtO2fGbxq/8dRJQARAQAB
      zSVMYXVuY2hwYWQgUFBBIGZvciBDYW5vbmljYWwgS2VybmVsIFJUwsGOBBMBCgA4
      FiEEc4Tsv+pcopCX6lNfLz1Vl/FsjCEFAmAervwCGwMFCwkIBwIGFQoJCAsCBBYC
      AwECHgECF4AACgkQLz1Vl/FsjCF9WhAAnwfx9njs1M3rfsMMuhvPxx0WS65HDlq8
      SRgl9K2EHtZIcS7lHmcjiTR5RD1w+4rlKZuE5J3EuMnNX1PdCYLSyMQed+7UAtX6
      TNyuiuVZVxuzJ5iS7L2ZoX05ASgyoh/Loipc+an6HzHqQnNC16ZdrBL4AkkGhDgP
      ZbYjM3FbBQkL2T/08NcwTrKuVz8DIxgH7yPAOpBzm91n/pV248eK0a46sKauR2DB
      zPKjcc180qmaVWyv9C60roSslvnkZsqe/jYyDFuSsRWqGgE5jNyIb8EY7K7KraPv
      3AkusgCh4fqlBxOvF6FJkiYeZZs5YXvGQ296HTfVhPLOqctSFX2kuUKGIq2Z+H/9
      qfJFGS1iaUsoDEUOaU27lQg5wsYa8EsCm9otroH2P3g7435JYRbeiwlwfHMS9EfK
      dwD38d8UzZj7TnxGG4T1aLb3Lj5tNG6DSko69+zqHhuknjkRuAxRAZfHeuRbACgE
      nIa7Chit8EGhC2GB12pr5XFWzTvNFdxFhbG+ed7EiGn/v0pVQc0ZfE73FXltg7et
      bkoC26o5Ksk1wK2SEs/f8aDZFtG01Ys0ASFICDGW2tusFvDs6LpPUUggMjf41s7j
      4tKotEE1Hzr38EdY+8faRaAS9teQdH5yob5a5Bp5F5wgmpqZom/gjle4JBVaV5dI
      N5rcnHzcvXw=
      =asqr
      -----END PGP PUBLIC KEY BLOCK-----
    permissions: "0644"

# install the snap
snap:
  commands:

>     00: 'snap install k8s --classic --channel=1.30-moonray/beta'

Author: Does this need to specify a version? isn't it generic or will it only work on particular snaps?

runcmd:
# fetch dpdk driver binding script
- su ubuntu -c "git config --global http.proxy http://10.18.2.1:3128"
- su ubuntu -c "git clone https://github.com/DPDK/dpdk.git /home/ubuntu/dpdk"
- apt update
- DEBIAN_FRONTEND=noninteractive apt install -y linux-headers-6.8.1-1004-realtime linux-image-6.8.1-1004-realtime linux-modules-6.8.1-1004-realtime linux-modules-extra-6.8.1-1004-realtime

# enable kernel options
- update-grub

# reboot to activate realtime-kernel and kernel options
power_state:
  mode: reboot
```

Notes:

* In the above, realtime kernel 6.8 is installed from a private ppa. It was recently backported from 24.04 to 22.04 and is still going through some validation stages. Once it is officially released, it will be installable via the Ubuntu Pro cli.

````
`````

## {{product}} setup 

{{product}} is delivered as a [snap](https://documentation.ubuntu.com/canonical-kubernetes/latest/snap/). 

This chapter explains how to set up a dual node {{product}} cluster for testing EPA capabilities.

### Control plane and worker node 

> 1. [Install the snap](https://documentation.ubuntu.com/canonical-kubernetes/latest/snap/howto/install/snap/) from the moonray track. The [beta channel](https://documentation.ubuntu.com/canonical-kubernetes/latest/snap/explanation/channels/) is used at this point as the end configuration of the k8s snap is not finalised yet.

Author: Again - is this specific to this snap?

```

> sudo snap install k8s --classic --channel=1.30-moonray/beta

Author: moonray

> # How to set up Enhanced Platform Awareness

Author: Pros - easier to follow chunks
Cons - some parts are inextricably linked together, e.g. hugepages and rtk which makes splitting it into logical sections harder
     - the testing section would also need to be split
     - it would likely need a lot more work and there are other things to do

I would vote for fixing this page and publishing it first, we can make a card to disentagle it and create a ctaegory for it when it is actually in a usable state.

This section explains how to set up the EPA features in a {{product}} cluster. 

The content starts with the setup of the environment (including steps for using

> [MAAS][MAAS]). Then the setup of {{product}}, including the Multus & SR-IOV/DPDK

Author: fixed

- `policy: default`: indicates that the system is using the default NUMA policy. The default policy typically tries to allocate memory on the same node as the processor executing a task, but it can fall back to other nodes if necessary.  
- `preferred node: current`: processes will prefer to allocate memory from the current node (the node where the process is running). However, if memory is not available on the current node, it can be allocated from other nodes.  
- `physcpubind: 0 1 2 3 ... 31 `: shows the physical CPUs that processes are allowed to run on. In this case, the system has 32 physical CPUs enabled for NUMA, and processes can use any of them.  
- `cpubind: 0 1 `: indicates the specific CPUs that the current process (meaning the process “numactl \-s”) is bound to. It's currently using CPUs 0 and 1.  
- `nodebind: 0 1 `: shows the NUMA nodes that the current process (meaning the process “numactl \-s”) is allowed to use for memory allocation. It has access to both node 0 and node 1.  
- `membind`: 0 1 `: confirms that the current process (meaning the process “numactl \-s”) can allocate memory from both node 0 and node 1.
```

### Enable the real-time kernel

> ```

Reviewer: Heading not followed by text

-  `rcu_nocb_poll`: Enables polling for RCU callbacks instead of using interrupts.  
-  `skew_tick=1`: Skews the timer tick across CPUs to reduce contention.  
-  `isolcpus=managed_irq,32-127`: Isolates CPUs 32-127 and assigns managed IRQs to them, reducing their involvement in system processes and dedicating them to specific workloads.  
-  `console=tty0`: Sets the console output to the first virtual terminal.  
-  `console=ttyS0,115200n8`: Sets the console output to the serial port ttyS0 with a baud rate of 115200, 8 data bits, no parity, and 1 stop bit.  
```

Once the reboot has taken place, ensure the HugePages configuration has been applied:

```
grep HugePages /proc/meminfo
```
This should  generate output indicating the number of pages allocated

```
HugePages_Total:    1000
HugePages_Free:     1000
HugePages_Rsvd:        0
HugePages_Surp:        0
```

Next, create a configuration file to configure the network interface 
to use SR-IOV (so it can create virtual functions afterwards) using 
Netplan. In the example below the file is created first, then the configuration is

> applied and then the 128 virtual functions are available for use in the environment:

Reviewer 2: Let's rephrase this sentence to avoid using `then the` twice

```
cat <<EOF > /etc/netplan/99-sriov_vfs.yaml
      network:
          ethernets:
              enp152s0f1:

>                   virtual-function-count: 128

Reviewer: We usually indent YAML with 2 spaces. I think it would look better here.

      * qlen 1000: The maximum number of packets allowed in the transmit queue.  
      * link/ether 40:a6:b7:96:d8:89: The interface's MAC address (a unique hardware identifier).  
    * Virtual functions:  
      * vf \<number\>: The index number of the virtual function.  
      * link/ether \<MAC address\>: The MAC address assigned to the virtual function.  
      * spoof checking on: A security feature to prevent MAC address spoofing (pretending to be another device).  
      * link-state auto: The link state (up/down) is determined automatically based on the physical connection.  
      * trust off: The interface doesn't trust the incoming VLAN (Virtual LAN) tags.  
    * Results:  
      * Successful VF Creation: The output confirms a success creation of 128 VFs (numbered 0 through 127\) on the enp152s0f1 interface.  
      * VF Availability: Each VF is ready for use, and they can be assigned i.e. to {{product}} containers to give them direct access to the network through this physical network interface.  
      * MAC Addresses: Each VF has its own unique MAC address, which is essential for network communication.
```

> * Now let’s enable DPDK, first by cloning the DPDK repo, and then placing the script that will bind the VFs to the VFIO-PCI driver in the location that will run automatically each time the system boots up, so the VFIO (Virtual Function I/O) bindings are applied consistently:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Now let’s enable DPDK, first by cloning the DPDK repo, and then placing the script that will bind the VFs to the VFIO-PCI driver in the location that will run automatically each time the system boots up, so the VFIO (Virtual Function I/O) bindings are applied consistently:
```
I don't think this needs to be a bullet point.

iommufd                98304  1 vfio
irqbypass              12288  2 vfio_pci_core,kvm

```

Running the helper script:

```
python3 /home/ubuntu/dpdk/usertools/dpdk-devbind.py -s
```

...should return a list of network devices using DPDK:

```
Network devices using DPDK-compatible driver
============================================
0000:98:12.2 'Ethernet Adaptive Virtual Function 1889' drv=vfio-pci unused=iavf
0000:98:12.3 'Ethernet Adaptive Virtual Function 1889' drv=vfio-pci unused=iavf
0000:98:12.4 'Ethernet Adaptive Virtual Function 1889' drv=vfio-pci unused=iavf
....
```

With these preparation steps we have enabled the features of EPA:

* NUMA and CPU Pinning are available to the first 32 CPUs  
* Real-Time Kernel is enabled  
* HugePages are enabled and 1000 1G huge pages are available   
* SRIOV is enabled in the enp152s0f1 interface, with 128 virtual function interfaces bound to the vfio-pci driver (that could also use the iavf driver)  
* DPDK is enabled in all the 128 virtual function interfaces

````

````{group-tab} MAAS

To prepare a machine for CPU isolation, Hugepages, real-time kernel, SRIOV and DPDK we leverage cloud-init through MAAS.

```

> #cloud-config

Author: I thought I had replied to this one? I think that is an excellent idea, but i think that applies to all our docs, and I think it would make sense to make a card specifically for finding and adding download links.

runcmd:
# fetch dpdk driver binding script
- su ubuntu -c "git config --global http.proxy http://10.18.2.1:3128"
- su ubuntu -c "git clone https://github.com/DPDK/dpdk.git /home/ubuntu/dpdk"
- apt update
- DEBIAN_FRONTEND=noninteractive apt install -y linux-headers-6.8.1-1004-realtime linux-image-6.8.1-1004-realtime linux-modules-6.8.1-1004-realtime linux-modules-extra-6.8.1-1004-realtime

# enable kernel options
- update-grub

# reboot to activate realtime-kernel and kernel options
power_state:
  mode: reboot
```

Notes:

* In the above, realtime kernel 6.8 is installed from a private ppa. It was recently backported from 24.04 to 22.04 and is still going through some validation stages. Once it is officially released, it will be installable via the Ubuntu Pro cli.

````
`````

## {{product}} setup 

{{product}} is delivered as a 
[snap](https://documentation.ubuntu.com/canonical-kubernetes/latest/snap/).

This section explains how to set up a dual node {{product}} cluster for testing
EPA capabilities.

### Control plane and worker node 

1. [Install the
   snap](https://documentation.ubuntu.com/canonical-kubernetes/latest/snap/howto/install/snap/)

>    from the moonray track. The [beta

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   from the {{track}}. The [beta
```
We will need something like {{product}} but for tracks.

   channel](https://documentation.ubuntu.com/canonical-kubernetes/latest/snap/explanation/channels/)

>    is used at this point as the end configuration of the k8s snap is not
>    finalised yet.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   is used until the {{product}} graduates to stable.
```

```
sudo k8s bootstrap --file configuration.yaml
```

#### Verify control plane node is up

After a few seconds you can query the API server with:

```
sudo k8s kubectl get all -A
```

### Second k8s node as worker 

1. Install the k8s snap on the second node

```
sudo snap install k8s --classic --channel=1.30-moonray/beta
```

2. On the control plane node generate a join token to be used for joining the
   second node

```
sudo k8s get-join-token --worker
```

3. On the worker node create the configuration.yaml file

```
extra-node-kubelet-args:
  --reserved-cpus: "0-31"
  --cpu-manager-policy: "static"
  --topology-manager-policy: "best-effort"
```

4. On the worker node use the token to join the cluster

```
sudo k8s join-cluster --file configuration.yaml <token-generated-on-the-control-plane-node>
```

### Verify the two node cluster is ready 

After a few seconds the second worker node will register with the control
plane. You can query the available workers from the first node:

```
sudo k8s kubectl get nodes
```

The output should list the connected nodes:

```
NAME          STATUS   ROLES                  AGE   VERSION

> pc6b-rb4-n1   Ready    control-plane,worker   22h   v1.30.2

Reviewer 2: Should we use k8s v1.31 for the docs?

Author: I will make both {{verion}} and {{track}} variables we can use in the text, but it is hard to change the ouput that way. i think we can just manually edit to whatever we want. I guess I will also need to find a way of tagging these things so we know to update them

pc6b-rb4-n3   Ready    worker                 22h   v1.30.2
```

### Multus and SRIOV setup 

Get the thick plugin (in case of resource scarcity we can consider deploying
the thin flavor)

```
sudo k8s kubectl apply -f https://raw.githubusercontent.com/k8snetworkplumbingwg/multus-cni/master/deployments/multus-daemonset-thick.yml
```

> Note: the memory limits for the multus pod spec in the DaemonSet should be
> increased (i.e. to 500Mi instead 50Mi) to avoid OOM issues when deploying
> multiple workload pods in parallel.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```{note} 
The memory limits for the Multus pod spec in the DaemonSet should be
increased (i.e. to 500Mi instead 50Mi) to avoid OOM issues when deploying
multiple workload pods in parallel.
```
Please add the end tics. Capitalize Multus to be consistent in the doc.

Author: :+1:

#### SRIOV Network Device Plugin 

> * Create sriov-dp.yaml configMap

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Create sriov-dp.yaml configMap
```

```
cat <<EOF | tee sriov-dp.yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: ConfigMap
metadata:
 name: sriovdp-config
 namespace: kube-system
data:
 config.json: |
   {
       "resourceList": [{
               "resourceName": "intel_sriov_netdevice",
               "selectors": [{
                   "vendors": ["8086"],
                   "devices": ["1889"],
                   "drivers": ["iavf"]
               }]
           },
           {
               "resourceName": "intel_sriov_dpdk",
               "resourcePrefix": "intel.com",
               "selectors": [{
                   "vendors": ["8086"],
                   "devices": ["1889"],
                   "drivers": ["vfio-pci"],
                   "pfNames": ["enp152s0f1"],
                   "needVhostNet": true
               }]
           }

>        ]

Reviewer: Ident with 2 spaces

   }
EOF
```

Apply the configMap definition:

```

> sudo k8s kubectl create -f ./sriov-dp.yaml

Reviewer 2: We could also apply this from a gh raw file (as below) unless we want the user to take a second look at the config?

Author: why don't we make a card to find all the long blocks of code in all docs and make them downloadable.

```

Install the SRIOV network device plugin:

```
sudo k8s kubectl apply -f https://raw.githubusercontent.com/k8snetworkplumbingwg/sriov-network-device-plugin/master/deployments/sriovdp-daemonset.yaml
```

> #### SRIOV CNI 
> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
#### SRIOV CNI 

Install the SRIOV CNI daemonset:

```

```
sudo k8s kubectl apply -f https://raw.githubusercontent.com/k8snetworkplumbingwg/sriov-cni/master/images/sriov-cni-daemonset.yaml
```

#### Multus NetworkAttachmentDefinition 

> Create the sriov-nad.yaml NetworkAttachmentDefinition

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Create the sriov-nad.yaml NetworkAttachmentDefinition:
```

```

> cat <<EOF | tee sriov-nad.yaml

Reviewer 2: Consider applying this from a gh raw file as well.

apiVersion: "k8s.cni.cncf.io/v1"
kind: NetworkAttachmentDefinition
metadata:
 name: sriov-net1
 annotations:
   k8s.v1.cni.cncf.io/resourceName: intel.com/intel_sriov_netdevice
spec:
 config: '{
 "type": "sriov",
 "cniVersion": "0.3.1",
 "name": "sriov-network",
 "ipam": {
   "type": "host-local",
   "subnet": "10.18.2.153/24", # The subnet for SR-IOV VFs
   "routes": [{
     "dst": "0.0.0.0/0"
   }],
   "gateway": "10.18.2.1" 
 }
}'
EOF

cat <<EOF | tee dpdk-nad.yaml
apiVersion: "k8s.cni.cncf.io/v1"
kind: NetworkAttachmentDefinition
metadata:
 name: dpdk-net1
 annotations:
   k8s.v1.cni.cncf.io/resourceName: intel.com/intel_sriov_dpdk
spec:
 config: '{
 "type": "sriov",
 "cniVersion": "0.3.1",
 "name": "dpdk-network"
}'
EOF
```

Apply the two NetworkAttachmentDefinition definition files

```
sudo k8s kubectl create -f ./sriov-nad.yaml
sudo k8s kubectl create -f ./dpdk-nad.yaml
```

## Testing

It is important to verify that all of these enabled features are working as

> expected before relying on them. This section deals with how to verify
> everything is working as expected.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
expected before relying on them. This section confirms that
everything is working as expected.
```

### Testing HugePages 

Verify that HugePages are allocated on your Kubernetes nodes. You can do this
by checking the node's capacity and allocatable resources:

```
sudo k8s kubectl get nodes
```

> 

Reviewer 2: Let's add some words in front of the following code blocks.

> ```

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

```
NAME          STATUS   ROLES                  AGE   VERSION
pc6b-rb4-n1   Ready    control-plane,worker   22h   v1.30.2
pc6b-rb4-n3   Ready    worker                 22h   v1.30.2
```

```
  hugepages-1Gi:      1000Gi
  hugepages-2Mi:      0
  hugepages-1Gi:      1000Gi
  hugepages-2Mi:      0
  hugepages-1Gi      0 (0%)      0 (0%)
  hugepages-2Mi      0 (0%)      0 (0%)
```

> So we have 1000 huge pages of 1Gi size each and we have a worker node labelled
> properly. Then you can create a Pod that explicitly requests one 1G Huge Page
> in its resource limits:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This example has `1000` huge pages of `1Gi` size each and a worker node labelled
properly. In this case, a pod can be created that explicitly requests one `1Gi` HugePage
in its resource limits:
```

```

> cat <<EOF | sudo k8s kubectl apply -f -

Reviewer 2: Maybe we can do a vertical scrolly window for this code block?

apiVersion: v1
kind: Pod
metadata:
  name: hugepage-test-ubuntu
spec:
  containers:
  - name: ubuntu-container
    image: ubuntu:latest
    command: ["sleep", "infinity"]
    resources:
      limits:
        hugepages-1Gi: 1Gi
        memory: 128Mi
      requests:
        memory: 128Mi
EOF
```

> Note: To ensure proper resource management and prevent conflicts, Kubernetes
> enforces that a pod requesting HugePages also explicitly requests a minimum
> amount of either CPU or standard memory resources.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```{note}
To ensure proper resource management and prevent conflicts, Kubernetes
enforces that a pod requesting HugePages also explicitly requests a minimum
amount of either CPU or standard memory resources.
```
Add closing tics please.

> Now, let’s check if the 1 Gi HugePage was allocated in the pod:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Now, ensure that the `1Gi` HugePage is allocated in the pod:
```

```
sudo k8s kubectl describe pod hugepage-test-ubuntu
``` 

> This should produce output indicating the request:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The output reflects the HugePage request:
```

```
....
    Limits:
      hugepages-1Gi:  1Gi
      memory:         128Mi
    Requests:
      hugepages-1Gi:  1Gi
      memory:         128Mi
....

```

> ## Testthe real-time kernel

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Test the real-time kernel
```

First, verify that real-time kernel is enabled in the worker node by checking
if “PREEMPT RT” appears after running the `uname -a` command:

```
uname -a
```

> The output should show the “PREEMPT RT” identifier:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The output shows the “PREEMPT RT” identifier:
```

an indication of the system's responsiveness to real-time events.  Lower
latencies typically indicate better real-time performance.

The output of cyclictest will provide statistics like:

* Average latency: The average time taken for a cycle.  
* Minimum latency: The shortest observed cycle time.  
* Maximum latency: The longest observed cycle time.

Create a pod that will run cyclictest tool with specific options:

- `-l 1000000`: Sets the number of test iterations to 1 million.  
- `-m`: Measures the maximum latency.  
- `-p 80`: Sets the real-time scheduling priority to 80 (a high priority, typically used for real-time tasks).  
- `-t 1`: Specifies CPU core 1 to be used for the test.

```
cat <<EOF | sudo k8s kubectl apply -f -
apiVersion: v1
kind: Pod
metadata:
  name: realtime-kernel-test
spec:
  containers:
  - name: realtime-test
    image: ubuntu:latest
    command: ["/bin/bash"]
    args: ["-c", "apt-get update && apt-get install rt-tests -y && cyclictest -l 1000000 -m -p 80 -t 1"]
    securityContext:
      privileged: true     
EOF
```

Get the pod logs to verify that the test is running:

```
sudo k8s kubectl logs realtime-kernel-test -f

```

```
...

> # /dev/cpu_dma_latency set to 0us

Reviewer: I'm seeing this in the sidebar
![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/0b88c610-a3c9-4050-91c0-3198c0313cd8)

  - P:80: The priority of the cyclictest thread.  
  - I:1000: The number of iterations (loops) the test ran for (1000 in this case).  
  - C: 241486: The number of cycles per second that the test has aimed for.  
* Min: 3 Act: 4 Avg: 3 Max: 18: These are the key latency statistics in microseconds (us):  
  * Min: The minimum latency observed during the test (3 us).  
  * Act: The actual average latency (4 us).  
  * Avg: The expected average latency (3us).  
  * Max: The maximum latency observed during the test (18 us).  
* In this case, the results suggest the following:  
  * Low Latencies: The minimum, average, and maximum latencies are all very low (3-18 us), which is a good sign for real-time performance. It indicates that your real-time kernel is responding promptly to events.  
  * High Load: The high load average indicates that your system is busy, but even under this load, the real-time kernel is maintaining low latencies for the high-priority cyclictest thread.

```

## Testing CPU Pinning and NUMA Topology Awareness in {{product}}

First check if CPU Manager and NUMA Topology Manager is set up in the worker node:

```

> ps -ef | grep /snap/k8s/678/bin/kubelet

Author: can we use `current` instead?

root          25      17  0 08:58 pts/0    00:00:00 ps -ef
root@cpu-pinning-test:/# taskset -p 1
pid 1's current affinity mask: 1000000000000000100000000
```

This hexadecimal mask (1000000000000000100000000) might seem unusual, but it
represents the binary equivalent: 0b1000000000000000100000000  
In this binary representation, each '1' bit indicates a CPU core that the
process is allowed to run on, while a '0' bit indicates a core the process
cannot use. Counting from right to left (starting at 0), the '1' bits in this
mask correspond to CPU cores 0 and 32\.

Based on the output, the sleep infinity process (PID 1\) is indeed being pinned
to specific CPU cores (0 and 32). This indicates that the CPU pinning is
working correctly. 

### Testing SR-IOV & DPDK

First check if SR-IOV Device Plugin pod is running and healthy in the cluster,
if SR-IOV is allocatable in the worker node and the PCI IDs of the VFs
available in the node (describing one of them to get further details):

```
sudo k8s kubectl get pods -n kube-system | grep sriov-device-plugin
```

This should indicate some running pods:

```
kube-sriov-device-plugin-7mxz5        1/1     Running   0          7m31s

> kube-sriov-device-plugin-fjzgt        1/1     Running   0          7m31s

Reviewer 2: Consider combining these code blocks please.

- su ubuntu -c "git config --global http.proxy http://10.18.2.1:3128"
- su ubuntu -c "git clone https://github.com/DPDK/dpdk.git /home/ubuntu/dpdk"
- apt update
- DEBIAN_FRONTEND=noninteractive apt install -y linux-headers-6.8.1-1004-realtime linux-image-6.8.1-1004-realtime linux-modules-6.8.1-1004-realtime linux-modules-extra-6.8.1-1004-realtime

# enable kernel options
- update-grub

# reboot to activate realtime-kernel and kernel options
power_state:
  mode: reboot
```

```{note}

In the above file, the realtime kernel 6.8 is installed from a private PPA.
It was recently backported from 24.04 to 22.04 and is still going through
some validation stages. Once it is officially released, it will be
installable via the Ubuntu Pro cli.
```

<!--VERSION:
The MAAS setup is inextricably linked to particular versions and will need to be
updated for these -->

````
`````

## {{product}} setup 

{{product}} is delivered as a [snap][].

This section explains how to set up a dual node {{product}} cluster for testing
EPA capabilities.

### Control plane and worker node 

1. [Install the snap][install-link] from the relevant [channel][channel]. 
   
   ```{note}

>    A pre-release channel is required currently until there is a finalised release of {{product}}.

Reviewer 3: maybe "stable" release instead? I guess the product will never be finalised :)

metadata:
  name: sriov-test-pod
  annotations:
    k8s.v1.cni.cncf.io/networks: dpdk-net1 
spec:
  containers:
    - name: sriov-test-container
      image: ubuntu:latest
      resources:
        limits:
          cpu: "10"
          memory: "4000Mi"
          intel.com/intel_sriov_dpdk: '1'
          hugepages-1Gi: "16Gi"
        requests:
          cpu: "10"
          memory: "4000Mi"
          hugepages-1Gi: "16Gi"
          intel.com/intel_sriov_dpdk: '1'
      securityContext:
        capabilities:
          add:
            - NET_ADMIN
            - CAP_SYS_NICE
            - SYS_NICE
            - IPC_LOCK
            - NET_ADMIN
            - SYS_TIME
            - CAP_NET_RAW
            - CAP_BPF
            - CAP_SYS_ADMIN
            - SYS_ADMIN
        privileged: true
      command: ["bash", "-c", "sleep infinity"]
EOF
```

Finally, describe the pod to confirm the DPDK network assignment and also the
virtual function PCI ID (in this case, `0000:98:1f.2`) that was assigned
automatically to the `net1` interface:

```
sudo k8s kubectl describe pod sriov-test-pod
```

The output (shown truncated below) should indicate the interface and
the correct PCI address:

```
...

>                   k8s.v1.cni.cncf.io/network-status:

Reviewer 3: I guess those tabs/intendations are here to show that this belongs to a larger output?
I think we can remove them - we already indicate that with the 3 points.
